BUILDING.md, before:

# Building Saucedacity

## Prerequisites

* **python3** >= 3.5
* **conan** >= 1.32.0
* **cmake** >= 3.16
* A working C++ 14 compiler

### Conan

[The best way to install Conan is `pip`.](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/installation.html)

To install Conan on Windows:

```
$ pip install conan
```

To install Conan on macOS and Linux:

```
$ sudo pip3 install conan
```

Alternatively, on macOS, Conan is available from `brew`.

### CMake

On Windows, please use the [prebuilt binaries](https://cmake.org/download/).

On macOS, the easiest way to install CMake is `brew install cmake`.

On Linux, `cmake` is usually available from the system package manager.

### Windows

We build Saucedacity using [Microsoft Visual Studio 2019](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/). In order to build Saucedacity, the **Desktop development with C++** workload is required.

As we require only C++14 - MSVC 2017 should work just fine too.

### MacOS

We build Saucedacity using XCode 12. However, it is likely possible to build it with XCode 7.

### Linux

We use GCC 9, but any C++14 compliant compiler should work.

On Debian or Ubuntu, you can install everything required using the following commands:

```
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install -y build-essential cmake git python3-pip
$ sudo pip3 install conan
$ sudo apt-get install libgtk2.0-dev libasound2-dev libavformat-dev libjack-jackd2-dev uuid-dev
```

## Building on Windows

1. Clone Saucedacity from the Saucedacity's GitHub. 
  
   For example, in the **git-bash** run:

    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/generic-pers0n/saucedacity/
    ```

2. Open CMake GUI. 
   
   Set the **Where is the source code** to the location where Saucedacity was cloned. 
   
   Set **Where to build the binaries** to the location you want to place your build in. It is preferred that this location is not within the directory with the source code.

3. Press **Configure**. You can choose which version of Visual Studio to use and the platform to build for in the pop-up. We support **x64** and **Win32** platforms. The **x64** platform is a default option. Press **Finish** to start the configuration process.

4. After successful configuration, you will see `Configuring done` in the last line of the log. Press **Generate** to generate the Visual Studio project. 

5. After you see "Generating done", press **Open Project** to open the project in Visual Studio.
   
6. Select "Build -> Build Solution".
   
7. You can now run and debug Saucedacity!
      
Generally, steps 1-5 are only needed the first-time you configure. Then, after you've generated the solution, you can open it in Visual Studio next time. If the project configuration has changed, the IDE will invoke CMake internally. 

> Conan Center provides prebuilt binaries only for **x64**. Configuring the project for Win32 will take much longer, as all the 3rd party libraries will be built during the configuration.

## macOS

1. Clone Saucedacity from the Saucedacity GitHub project. 
  
    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/generic-pers0n/saucedacity/
    ```

2. Configure Saucedacity using CMake:
   ```
   $ mkdir build && cd build
   $ cmake -GXcode -T buildsystem=1 ../saucedacity
   ```

3. Open Saucedacity XCode project:
   ```
   $ open Audacity.xcodeproj
   ```
   and build Saucedacity using the IDE. 

Steps 1 and 2 are only required for first-time builds. 

Alternatively, you can use **CLion**. If you chose to do so, open the directory where you have cloned Saucedacity using CLion and you are good to go.

At the moment we only support **x86_64** builds. It is possible to build using AppleSilicon hardware but **mad** and **id3tag** should be disabled:

```
cmake -GXCode -T buildsystem=1 -Daudacity_use_mad="off" -Daudacity_use_id3tag=off ../saucedacity
```

## Linux & Other OS

1. Clone Saucedacity from the Saucedacity GitHub project. 
  
    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/generic-pers0n/saucedacity/
    ```

2. Configure Saucedacity using CMake:
   ```
   $ mkdir build && cd build
   $ cmake -G "Unix Makefiles" -Daudacity_use_ffmpeg=loaded ../saucedacity
   ```
   By default, Debug build will be configured. To change that, pass `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` to CMake.

3. Build Saucedacity:
   ```
   $ make -j`nproc`
   ```

4. Testing the build:
   Adding a "Portable Settings" folder allows Saucedacity to ignore the settings of any existing Saucedacity (or Audacity) installation.
   ```
   $ cd bin/Debug
   $ mkdir "Portable Settings"
   $ ./saucedacity
   ```

5. Installing Saucedacity
   ```
   $ cd <build directory>
   $ sudo make install
   ```

## Advanced

### CMake options

You can use `cmake -LH` to get a list of the options available (or use CMake GUI or `ccmake`). The list will include documentation about each option. For convenience, [here is a list](CMAKE_OPTIONS.md) of the most notable options.

### Building using system libraries

On Linux it is possible to build Saucedacity using (almost) only the libraries provided by the package manager. Please, see the list of required libraries [here](linux/required_libraries.md).

```
$ mkdir build && cd build
$ cmake -G "Unix Makefiles" \
        -Daudacity_use_ffmpeg=loaded \
        -Daudacity_lib_preference=system \
        -Daudacity_obey_system_dependencies=On \
         ../saucedacity
```

There are a few cases when the local library build is preferred:

1. **wxWidgets**: While Saucedacity on **Linux** uses vanilla version of wxWidgets, we **require** that version **3.1.3** is used. This version is not available in most of the distributions.
2. **portaudio-v19**: Saucedacity currently uses [some private APIs](https://github.com/audacity/audacity/issues/871), so using system portaudio is not yet possible.
3. **vamp-host-sdk**: Development packages are not available in Ubuntu 20.04.
4. **libnyquist** & **portmixer**: Libraries are not available in Ubuntu 20.04.
5. **sqlite3** & **libsmbs**: Libraries are very outdated in Ubuntu 20.04.

It is not advised to mix system and local libraries, except for the list above. `ZLib` is a very common dependency; it is possible to mix system and local libraries in one build. However, we advise against doing so.

There is a [`Dockerfile`](linux/build-environment/Dockerfile) that can be used as an example of how to build Saucedacity using system libraries: 

```
$ docker build -t audacity_linux_env .\linux\build-environment\
$ docker run --rm -v ${pwd}:/audacity/audacity/ -v ${pwd}/../build/linux-system:/audacity/build -it audacity_linux_env
```

To find system packages, we rely on `pkg-config`. There are several packages that have broken `*.pc` or do not use `pkg-config` at all. For the docker image - we handle this issue by installing the correct [`pc` files](linux/build-environment/pkgconfig/).

### Disabling Conan

Conan can be disabled completely using `-Daudacity_conan_enabled=Off` during the configuration. 
This option implies `-Daudacity_obey_system_dependencies=On` and disables `local` for packages that are managed with Conan.

Commit message:

Added Build notes about Windows, corrected some things

BUILDING.md, after:

# Building Saucedacity

## Prerequisites

* **python3** >= 3.5
* **conan** >= 1.32.0
* **cmake** >= 3.16
* A working C++ 14 compiler

### Conan

[The best way to install Conan is `pip`.](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/installation.html)

To install Conan on Windows:

```
> pip install conan
```

To install Conan on macOS and Linux:

```
$ sudo pip3 install conan
```

Alternatively, on macOS, Conan is available from `brew`.

### CMake

On Windows, please use the [prebuilt binaries](https://cmake.org/download/).

On macOS, the easiest way to install CMake is `brew install cmake`.

On Linux, `cmake` is usually available from the system package manager.

### Windows

We build Saucedacity using [Microsoft Visual Studio 2019](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/community/). In order to build Saucedacity, the **Desktop development with C++** workload is required.

As we require only C++14, MSVC 2017 should work just fine.

#### Cygwin

Currently, building under Cygwin isn't supported. You can find instructions on the Audacity Wiki, but they are very old and likely won't work. If you somehow **do** get a working Saucedacity build, please let us know through our issue tracker.

#### MinGW

Building with MinGW isn't supported either. However, this might be of interest in the future as an alternative to building with Visual Studio and MSVC. Feel free to work on this.

### MacOS

**WARNING**: these instructions are taken from Audacity's BUILDING.md. They have not been modified except for branding changes. If there's anything incorrect here, please create an issue.

We build Saucedacity using XCode 12. However, it is likely possible to build it with XCode 7.

### Linux

We use GCC 9, but any C++14 compliant compiler should work.

On Debian or Ubuntu, you can install everything required using the following commands:

```
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install -y build-essential cmake git python3-pip
$ sudo pip3 install conan
$ sudo apt-get install libgtk2.0-dev libasound2-dev libavformat-dev libjack-jackd2-dev uuid-dev
```

## Building on Windows

1. Clone Saucedacity from the Saucedacity's GitHub. 
  
   For example, in the **git-bash** run:

    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/generic-pers0n/saucedacity/
    ```

2. Open CMake GUI. 
   
   Set the **Where is the source code** to the location where Saucedacity was cloned. 
   
   Set **Where to build the binaries** to the location you want to place your build in. It is preferred that this location is not within the directory with the source code.

3. Press **Configure**. You can choose which version of Visual Studio to use and the platform to build for in the pop-up. We support **x64** and **Win32** platforms. The **x64** platform is a default option. Press **Finish** to start the configuration process.

4. After successful configuration, you will see `Configuring done` in the last line of the log. Press **Generate** to generate the Visual Studio project. 

5. After you see "Generating done", press **Open Project** to open the project in Visual Studio.
   
6. Select "Build -> Build Solution".
   
7. You have now built Saucedacity...except that it might not work. See the additional steps below.

Generally, steps 1-5 are only needed the first-time you configure. Then, after you've generated the solution, you can open it in Visual Studio next time. If the project configuration has changed, the IDE will invoke CMake internally.

> Conan Center provides prebuilt binaries only for **x64**. Configuring the project for Win32 will take much longer, as all the 3rd party libraries will be built during the configuration.


### Additional Steps

You need to build additional dependencies on Windows. They are listed below:

* libexpat
* zlib
* wxWidgets (Audacity's fork)

Instructions needed to build those dependencies aren't going to be provided here. You need to use CMAke with libexpat, so you can follow steps 1-4 as listed above, replacing the repository link with 'https://github.com/libexpat/libexpat. For wxWidgets, you don't need to use CMake. The appropriate Visual Studio Project files are in `build/msw`. Additionally, you don't need to use Visual Studio if you don't want to, as there are many different build systems.

## macOS

1. Clone Saucedacity from the Saucedacity GitHub project. 
  
    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/generic-pers0n/saucedacity/
    ```

2. Configure Saucedacity using CMake:
   ```
   $ mkdir build && cd build
   $ cmake -GXcode -T buildsystem=1 ../saucedacity
   ```

3. Open Saucedacity XCode project:
   ```
   $ open Audacity.xcodeproj
   ```
   and build Saucedacity using the IDE. 

Steps 1 and 2 are only required for first-time builds. 

Alternatively, you can use **CLion**. If you chose to do so, open the directory where you have cloned Saucedacity using CLion and you are good to go.

At the moment we only support **x86_64** builds. It is possible to build using AppleSilicon hardware but **mad** and **id3tag** should be disabled:

```
cmake -GXCode -T buildsystem=1 -Daudacity_use_mad="off" -Daudacity_use_id3tag=off ../saucedacity
```

## Linux & Other OS

1. Clone Saucedacity from the Saucedacity GitHub project. 
  
    ```
    $ git clone https://github.com/generic-pers0n/saucedacity/
    ```

2. Configure Saucedacity using CMake:
   ```
   $ mkdir build && cd build
   $ cmake -G "Unix Makefiles" -Daudacity_use_ffmpeg=loaded ../saucedacity
   ```
   By default, Debug build will be configured. To change that, pass `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` to CMake.

3. Build Saucedacity:
   ```
   $ make -j`nproc`
   ```

4. Testing the build:
   Adding a "Portable Settings" folder allows Saucedacity to ignore the settings of any existing Saucedacity (or Audacity) installation.
   ```
   $ cd bin/Debug
   $ mkdir "Portable Settings"
   $ ./saucedacity
   ```

5. Installing Saucedacity
   ```
   $ cd <build directory>
   $ sudo make install
   ```

## Advanced

### CMake options

You can use `cmake -LH` to get a list of the options available (or use CMake GUI or `ccmake`). The list will include documentation about each option. For convenience, [here is a list](CMAKE_OPTIONS.md) of the most notable options.

### Building using system libraries

On Linux it is possible to build Saucedacity using (almost) only the libraries provided by the package manager. Please, see the list of required libraries [here](linux/required_libraries.md).

```
$ mkdir build && cd build
$ cmake -G "Unix Makefiles" \
        -Daudacity_use_ffmpeg=loaded \
        -Daudacity_lib_preference=system \
        -Daudacity_obey_system_dependencies=On \
         ../saucedacity
```

There are a few cases when the local library build is preferred:

1. **wxWidgets**: While Saucedacity on **Linux** uses vanilla version of wxWidgets, we **require** that version **3.1.3** is used. This version is not available in most of the distributions.
2. **portaudio-v19**: Saucedacity currently uses [some private APIs](https://github.com/audacity/audacity/issues/871), so using system portaudio is not yet possible.
3. **vamp-host-sdk**: Development packages are not available in Ubuntu 20.04.
4. **libnyquist** & **portmixer**: Libraries are not available in Ubuntu 20.04.
5. **sqlite3** & **libsmbs**: Libraries are very outdated in Ubuntu 20.04.

It is not advised to mix system and local libraries, except for the list above. `ZLib` is a very common dependency; it is possible to mix system and local libraries in one build. However, we advise against doing so.

There is a [`Dockerfile`](linux/build-environment/Dockerfile) that can be used as an example of how to build Saucedacity using system libraries: 

```
$ docker build -t audacity_linux_env .\linux\build-environment\
$ docker run --rm -v ${pwd}:/audacity/audacity/ -v ${pwd}/../build/linux-system:/audacity/build -it audacity_linux_env
```

To find system packages, we rely on `pkg-config`. There are several packages that have broken `*.pc` or do not use `pkg-config` at all. For the docker image - we handle this issue by installing the correct [`pc` files](linux/build-environment/pkgconfig/).

### Disabling Conan

Conan can be disabled completely using `-Daudacity_conan_enabled=Off` during the configuration. 
This option implies `-Daudacity_obey_system_dependencies=On` and disables `local` for packages that are managed with Conan.
