README.md, before:

[![Tenacity](https://codeberg.org/tenacityteam/assets/raw/branch/master/PNG/tenacity-logo-dark-readme.png)](https://tenacityaudio.org)

[![Chat on IRC](https://badgen.net/badge/irc/%23tenacity/green)](https://web.libera.chat/gamja/?channels=#tenacity)
[![License](https://badgen.net/badge/license/GPLv2/blue)](LICENSE.txt)
[![Open issues](https://badgen.net/github/open-issues/tenacityteam/tenacity)](https://github.com/tenacityteam/tenacity/issues)
[![GitHub builds](https://badgen.net/github/status/tenacityteam/tenacity)](https://github.com/tenacityteam/tenacity/actions?query=branch%3Amaster+event%3Apush)
<!--[![builds.sr.ht](https://builds.sr.ht/~tenacity/tenacity/commits/.svg)](https://builds.sr.ht/~tenacity/tenacity/commits/?)-->
[![Translation status](https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/tenacity/-/tenacity/svg-badge.svg)](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/tenacity/)

Please note that **we do NOT accept any pull requests or issues on GitHub anymore**. See https://codeberg.org/tenacityteam/tenacity to file your bug report or submit your pull request.

---

Tenacity is an easy-to-use multi-track audio editor and recorder for Windows, macOS, Linux and other operating systems. It is built on top of the widely popular [Audacity](https://audacityteam.org/) and is being developed by a wide, diverse group of volunteers.

## Features

- **Recording** from audio devices (real or virtual)
- **Export / Import** a wide range of audio formats (extensible with FFmpeg)
- **High quality** including up to 32-bit float audio support
- **Plug-ins** providing support for VST, LV2, and AU plugins
- **Scripting** in the built-in scripting language Nyquist, or in Python, Perl and other languages with named pipes
- **Editing** arbitrary sampling and multi-track timeline
- **Accessibility** including editing via keyboard, screen reader support and narration support
- **Tools** useful in the analysis of signals, including audio

## Motivation

Our project initially started as a fork of [Audacity](https://audacityteam.org) as a result of multiple controversies and public relation crises, which you can find out more about here:

- [**Privacy policy which may violate the original project's GPL license**](https://github.com/audacity/audacity/issues/1213)
- [**Contributor's License Agreement (CLA) which may violate the same GPL license**](https://github.com/audacity/audacity/discussions/932)
- [**Attempts at adding telemetry using Google services for data collection**](https://github.com/audacity/audacity/pull/835)

Nevertheless, the goal of this project is to pick up what the original developers of Audacity the decades-long work by the original creators of Audacity and create an audio editor that is fresh, more modern, convenient and practical to use, with the help and the guidance of our users and our community.

## Download

### Tenacity

We have not released the first version of Tenacity yet, but we are working towards Tenacity's first ever release, version 1.3, which is close to completion.

Nevertheless, as a result of popular demand by the community, we decided to provide "nightly" downloads for Windows, macOS and Ubuntu Linux. These downloads are based on the latest version of Tenacity's code, and are not representative of our final product. Some features may be added, removed, or changed.

- [Nightly Downloads](https://tenacityaudio.org/very-early-builds)
- [Nightly Flatpak builds](https://github.com/tenacityteam/tenacity-flatpak-nightly/blob/main/README.md)
- [Unofficial Arch Linux (AUR) Package](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/tenacity-git/)

### Audacity

The latest official version of Audacity that does not implement telemetry is `3.0.2`. Some Linux-based operating systems also ship Audacity with telemetry and networking features disabled by default.

Downloads for these versions can be found on the [Audacity website](https://www.audacityteam.org/download/). If you're looking for support regarding these versions, it may be worth consulting [Audacity's forum](https://forum.audacityteam.org/) or [Audacity's wiki](https://wiki.audacityteam.org/).

## Getting Started

Build instructions for Tenacity are available in the [BUILDING.md file](BUILDING.md).

## Contributing

To start contributing, please consult the [CONTRIBUTING.md file](CONTRIBUTING.md).

If you are planning to make a big change or if you are otherwise hesitant as to whether we want to incorporate something you want to work on in Tenacity itself, simply open an issue about it in our [Codeberg issue tracker](https://codeberg.org/tenacityteam/tenacity/issues). We can discuss it and work together, so that neither our time or your time and hard effort goes to waste.

### Translating

You can help us translate Tenacity and make it more accessible on [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/tenacity).

Commit message:

Update main description and download section
* Add general welcome for Audacium and Saucedacity users.

* Remove link to nightly builds

* Add link to unofficial chocolatey package for Windows

Signed-off-by: Avery King <generic-pers0n@noreply.codeberg.org>

README.md, after:

[![Tenacity](https://codeberg.org/tenacityteam/assets/raw/branch/master/PNG/tenacity-logo-dark-readme.png)](https://tenacityaudio.org)

[![Chat on IRC](https://badgen.net/badge/irc/%23tenacity/green)](https://web.libera.chat/gamja/?channels=#tenacity)
[![License](https://badgen.net/badge/license/GPLv2/blue)](LICENSE.txt)
[![Open issues](https://badgen.net/github/open-issues/tenacityteam/tenacity)](https://github.com/tenacityteam/tenacity/issues)
[![GitHub builds](https://badgen.net/github/status/tenacityteam/tenacity)](https://github.com/tenacityteam/tenacity/actions?query=branch%3Amaster+event%3Apush)
<!--[![builds.sr.ht](https://builds.sr.ht/~tenacity/tenacity/commits/.svg)](https://builds.sr.ht/~tenacity/tenacity/commits/?)-->
[![Translation status](https://hosted.weblate.org/widgets/tenacity/-/tenacity/svg-badge.svg)](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/tenacity/)

Please note that **we do NOT accept any pull requests or issues on GitHub anymore**. See https://codeberg.org/tenacityteam/tenacity to file your bug report or submit your pull request.

---

Tenacity is an easy-to-use multi-track audio editor and recorder for Windows, macOS, Linux and other operating systems. It is built on top of the widely popular [Audacity](https://audacityteam.org/) and is being developed by a wide, diverse group of volunteers.

**Are you coming from [Audacium](https://github.com/Audacium/audacium) or [Saucedacity](https://codeberg.org/tenacityteam/saucedacity-legacy)? You're in the right place!** We'd like to welcome all Audacium and Saucedacity users to Tenacity and our community. We've implemented new features from Audacity 3.1 to make editing easier. Additionally, we've preserved the themes of these two forks with only very slight modifications so they look better with our new editing features and slight track changes.

## Features

- **Recording** from audio devices (real or virtual)
- **Export / Import** a wide range of audio formats (extensible with FFmpeg)
- **High quality** including up to 32-bit float audio support
- **Plug-ins** providing support for VST, LV2, and AU plugins
- **Scripting** in the built-in scripting language Nyquist, or in Python, Perl and other languages with named pipes
- **Editing** arbitrary sampling and multi-track timeline
- **Accessibility** including editing via keyboard, screen reader support and narration support
- **Tools** useful in the analysis of signals, including audio

## Motivation

Our project initially started as a fork of [Audacity](https://audacityteam.org) as a result of multiple controversies and public relation crises, which you can find out more about here:

- [**Privacy policy which may violate the original project's GPL license**](https://github.com/audacity/audacity/issues/1213)
- [**Contributor's License Agreement (CLA) which may violate the same GPL license**](https://github.com/audacity/audacity/discussions/932)
- [**Attempts at adding telemetry using Google services for data collection**](https://github.com/audacity/audacity/pull/835)

Nevertheless, the goal of this project is to pick up what the original developers of Audacity the decades-long work by the original creators of Audacity and create an audio editor that is fresh, more modern, convenient and practical to use, with the help and the guidance of our users and our community.

## Download

### Tenacity

You can find the latest release here: https://codeberg.org/tenacityteam/tenacity/releases.

Additionally, the following unavailable packages are available for you to try the latest nightly versions of Tenacity:
https://community.chocolatey.org/packages/tenacity
**Windows**:
- [Unofficial Tenacity Chocolatey Package](https://community.chocolatey.org/packages/tenacity)

**Linux**:
- [Unofficial Arch Linux (AUR) Package](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/tenacity-git/)

If there are any issues with any of the above packages, you should report them to their respective maintainers. If you believe an issue regard Tenacity, please report the issue here.

### Audacity

The latest official version of Audacity that does not implement telemetry is `3.0.2`. Some Linux-based operating systems also ship Audacity with telemetry and networking features disabled by default.

Downloads for these versions can be found on the [Audacity website](https://www.audacityteam.org/download/). If you're looking for support regarding these versions, it may be worth consulting [Audacity's forum](https://forum.audacityteam.org/) or [Audacity's wiki](https://wiki.audacityteam.org/).

## Getting Started

Build instructions for Tenacity are available in the [BUILDING.md file](BUILDING.md).

## Contributing

To start contributing, please consult the [CONTRIBUTING.md file](CONTRIBUTING.md).

If you are planning to make a big change or if you are otherwise hesitant as to whether we want to incorporate something you want to work on in Tenacity itself, simply open an issue about it in our [Codeberg issue tracker](https://codeberg.org/tenacityteam/tenacity/issues). We can discuss it and work together, so that neither our time or your time and hard effort goes to waste.

### Translating

You can help us translate Tenacity and make it more accessible on [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/tenacity).
